RHIDP-12595: Migrate RHDH UI features to New Frontend System (#2107)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: modules/shared/proc-add-navigation-shortcuts-to-reduce-clicks-to-frequently-used-resources.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="add-navigation-shortcuts-to-reduce-clicks-to-frequently-used-resources_{context}"]
= Add navigation shortcuts to reduce clicks to frequently used resources

[role="_abstract"]

> Add custom toolbar buttons and dropdown menu items to the {product} global header to give you one-click access to frequently used tools, documentation, and support resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add custom toolbar buttons and dropdown menu items to the {product} global header to give you quick access to frequently used tools, documentation, and support resources.
```

> You can add navigation shortcuts using three approaches:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add navigation shortcuts using any of the following approaches:
```
(I removed "three" just in case approaches could change later and to avoid maintenance)

* You have integrated the global header plugin into your application features.

.Procedure

. To add navigation shortcuts, configure the `globalHeader` block in your `{my-app-config-file}` file with `components` for toolbar buttons and `menuItems` for dropdown entries:
+
[source,yaml]
----
globalHeader:
  components:
    - title: Visualizer Dashboard
      titleKey: visualizer.dashboard.title  # Optional localization key for the title.
      icon: dashboard
      link: /visualizer/tree
      priority: 75  # Priority determines display order. Higher values appear first.
  menuItems:
    - target: help  # Target specifies which dropdown menu (`help`, `profile`, or `app-launcher`) receives this item.
      title: Internal Wiki
      titleKey: wiki.internal.title
      icon: article
      link: https://wiki.internal.example.com
      sectionLabel: resources  # Section groups related menu items together.
      priority: 80
----

. Save the configuration file.
. Restart your {product} instance to apply the changes.

.Verification

. Open your {product} instance in a web browser.
. Verify that your custom toolbar button is displayed in the global header.

> . Click the target dropdown menu to confirm your menu item displays in the correct section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click the target drop-down menu to confirm your menu item is displayed in the correct section.
```
(Use drop-down menu as per the IBM Style Guide: https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=word-usage)

* Fully custom React components. 

The global header uses `GlobalHeaderComponentBlueprint` for toolbar items and `GlobalHeaderMenuItemBlueprint` for dropdown menu entries.

.Prerequisites

* You have installed the `@red-hat-developer-hub/backstage-plugin-global-header` package.
* You have access to the `{my-app-config-file}` file.
* You have integrated the global header plugin into your application features.

.Procedure

. To add navigation shortcuts, configure the `globalHeader` block in your `{my-app-config-file}` file with `components` for toolbar buttons and `menuItems` for dropdown entries:
+
[source,yaml]
----
globalHeader:
  components:
    - title: Visualizer Dashboard
      titleKey: visualizer.dashboard.title  # Optional localization key for the title.
      icon: dashboard
      link: /visualizer/tree
      priority: 75  # Priority determines display order. Higher values appear first.
  menuItems:
    - target: help  # Target specifies which dropdown menu (`help`, `profile`, or `app-launcher`) receives this item.
      title: Internal Wiki
      titleKey: wiki.internal.title
      icon: article
      link: https://wiki.internal.example.com

>       section: resources  # Section groups related menu items together.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      sectionLabel: resources  # Section groups related menu items together.
```
